Write documentation for antenatal corticosteroids intervention (#1688)
ihmeuw/vivarium_research: docs/source/models/intervention_models/intrapartum/acs_intervention.rst

component requires data on (1) the relative risk of preterm with RDS mortality for people who did not receive ACS, and (2) the population attributable fraction (PAF) of preterm with
RDS deaths due to not receiving ACS.  We will use the decision tree below to estimate the probability of preterm with RDS mortality with and without the use of ACS, ensuring consistency
with the baseline delivery facility rates and baseline ACS coverage.

In Vivarium, this risk effect will modify the preterm with RDS mortality pipeline, resulting in 

.. math::

   \text{CSMRisk}_i^\text{preterm with RDS} = \text{CSMRisk}^\text{preterm with RDS} \cdot (1 - \text{PAF}_\text{no ACS}) \cdot \text{RR}_i^\text{no ACS}

where :math:`\text{RR}_i^\text{no ACS}` is simulant *i*'s individual relative risk for "no ACS", meaning :math:`\text{RR}_i^\text{no ACS} = \text{RR}_\text{no ACS}` 
if simulant *i* does not receive ACS, and :math:`\text{RR}_i^\text{no ACS} = 1` if simulant *i* receives ACS. 

The relative risk value we will use is pulled from [Gallos-et-al-2018-Cochrane-Review]_, the most recent Cochrane Review of the effect of 

> sublingually received ACS during labor on the prevention of preterm with RDS.

Reviewer: Above you said the recommended drugs are delivered intramuscually.  It is not something that shows up in our sim, but it is the kind of thing that might make a reader wonder what else we have done inconsistently.  Please double check the mode of delivery and make sure it is consistent in our docs.

.. list-table:: Risk Effect Parameters for No ACS
  :widths: 15 15 15 15
  :header-rows: 1

  * - Parameter
    - Value
    - Source
    - Notes
  * - :math:`\text{RR}^\text{no ACS}`
    - :math:`1/\text{RR}^\text{ACS}`
    - N/A
    - Value to be used in sim
  * - :math:`1/\text{RR}^\text{ACS}`
    - RR = 0.84 (95% CI 0.72-0.97). Parameter uncertainty implemented as a lognormal distribution: :code:`get_lognorm_from_quantiles(0.84, 0.72, 0.97)`
    - [Oladapo-et-al-2020]_
    - 
  * - mean_rr
    - :math:`\text{RR}^\text{no misoprostol} * (1 - p_\text{baseline coverage}) + p_\text{baseline_coverage}`
    - N/A
    - Despite intervention eligibility criteria of CPAP availability and expected preterm status, we will use :math:`p_\text{baseline coverage}`

>       defined in the baseline coverage section above among all in-facility births (regardless of CPAP availability or expected preterm status) to calculate the mean_rr and PAF values

Author: Nathaniel and I talked about this a bit yesterday and felt like it should but he also was planning to think about the PAF calculation a little more to make sure it makes sense, I think. Seems like it'll be helpful to talk about it more in real time when we're all back online!

where :math:`\text{RR}_i^\text{no ACS}` is simulant *i*'s individual relative risk for "no ACS", meaning :math:`\text{RR}_i^\text{no ACS} = \text{RR}_\text{no ACS}` 
if simulant *i* does not receive ACS, and :math:`\text{RR}_i^\text{no ACS} = 1` if simulant *i* receives ACS. 

The relative risk value we will use is pulled from [Oladapo-et-al-2020]_, a BMGF-funded multicountry RCT which investigated the impact
of ACS for pregnant women and people at imminent risk of preterm delivery.

.. list-table:: Risk Effect Parameters for No ACS
  :widths: 15 15 15 15
  :header-rows: 1

  * - Parameter
    - Value
    - Source
    - Notes
  * - :math:`\text{RR}^\text{no ACS}`
    - :math:`1/\text{RR}^\text{ACS}`
    - N/A
    - Value to be used in sim
  * - :math:`1/\text{RR}^\text{ACS}`
    - RR = 0.84 (95% CI 0.72-0.97). Parameter uncertainty implemented as a lognormal distribution: :code:`get_lognorm_from_quantiles(0.84, 0.72, 0.97)`
    - [Oladapo-et-al-2020]_
    - 
  * - mean_rr
    - :math:`\text{RR}^\text{no ACS} * (1 - p_\text{baseline coverage}) + p_\text{baseline_coverage}`

>     - N/A

Reviewer 2: I think we will need to use the more complicated PAF derivation that you've used in the neonatal interventions given that baseline coverage varies by delivery facility. We've been able to use this simplified equation when we have just one estimate of baseline coverage among the entire eligible population like for misoprostol and neonatal antibiotics.

of ACS for pregnant women and people at imminent risk of preterm delivery.

.. list-table:: Risk Effect Parameters for No ACS
  :widths: 15 15 15 15
  :header-rows: 1

  * - Parameter
    - Value
    - Source
    - Notes
  * - :math:`\text{RR}^\text{no ACS}`
    - :math:`1/\text{RR}^\text{ACS}`
    - N/A
    - Value to be used in sim for lack of access to ACS (i.e. for both :math:`\text{RR_ACS | CPAP}` and :math:`\text{RR_ACS | no CPAP}`, for more
      on why we have the assumption that :math:`\text{RR_ACS | CPAP} =  \text{RR_ACS | no CPAP}`, please see the limitations section below.)
  * - :math:`\text{RR}^\text{ACS}`
    - RR = 0.84 (95% CI 0.72-0.97). Parameter uncertainty implemented as a lognormal distribution: :code:`get_lognorm_from_quantiles(0.84, 0.72, 0.97)`
    - [Oladapo-et-al-2020]_
    - 
  * - mean_rr
    - :math:`\text{RR}^\text{no ACS} * (1 - p_\text{baseline coverage}) + p_\text{baseline_coverage}`
    - N/A
    - We will use :math:`p_\text{baseline coverage}` defined in the baseline coverage section above for **among the eligible population only** (i.e., expected births 

>       with preterm status) to calculate the mean_rr and PAF values.

Reviewer 2: I think the mean_rr row can be deleted now that you have the PAF instructions below

- We assume that the delivery facility is also the facility where a mother or birthing person will seek care for their preterm infant with RDS.
- We assume that the relative risk of preterm with RDS mortality with ACS in practice is a value that we can find in the literature. Note: 
  the value we are using is from [Oladapo-et-al-2020]_, a BMGF-funded multicountry RCT which compared neonatal mortality for women at imminent
  risk of preterm birth (i.e., expected to give birth in next 48 hours) that received intramuscular dexamethasone (6mg dosage) versus a placebo. 
  Both groups (test and control groups) in the trial had access to CPAP, so the effect size reported for ACS is specific to ACS in the presence of
  CPAP, rather than pertaining to the cumulative effect size of ACS and CPAP together. 
- We assume that ``(RR_ACS | CPAP) = (RR_ACS | no CPAP)``. This is because of the assumption that ACS affects RDS incidence while CPAP affects RDS 
  case fatality, so by definition CPAP could not modify the effect of RDS under these assumptions it comes too late in the causal chain.

> - We assume that ``(RR_CPAP | ACS) = (RR_CPAP | no ACS)`` despite the fact that ACS acts on outcomes that come earlier in the causal chain than CPAP,

Reviewer 2: Let's add this limitation (ACS does not modify the effect of CPAP) to the CPAP intervention page instead of here. Also, out of curiosity I did a quick search and it looks like this study suggests that ACS use was not significantly associated with CPAP success in RDS treatment, which supports our assumption here! Let's add that as supporting evidence in the note of the limitation too :) https://pmc-ncbi-nlm-nih-gov.offcampus.lib.washington.edu/articles/PMC10155133/

- Despite the fact that our preterm cause model (based on the GBD cause) considers under 37 weeks of gestation, and despite the [WHO-2022]_ recommendations 
  that infants with 24-34 weeks of gestation receive ACS, we will only apply the ACS intervention to simulants with 26-33 weeks of gestation, based BMGF assumptions (see email from CT on 6/30/2025).

.. todo::

  - If we can find more suitable baseline coverage data for ACS use for all of our locations (particularly Nigeria and Pakistan), we will update accordingly. 
  - Decide we want to use a different RR value than what we're currently using, we need to update that accordingly.

.. note:: 

  There is a trial called ACTION-3 that has an anticipated readout this year that will inform the effectiveness of ACS for late preterm (34-36 weeks)
  which BMGF team will share with us when possible. We will adjust our effect size accordingly when that information is received.

Validation and Verification Criteria
------------------------------------

> - Population-level incidence rate should be the same as when this intervention is not included in the model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Population-level neonatal mortality rate of preterm birth with RDS in the baseline scenario should continue to validate.
```
